# Multi-tenant B2C setup
## Introduction
The following leads you through the process of setting up an Azure AD B2C directory to provide identity (authentication) support for a multi-tenant SaaS application. A single B2C directory is used to maintain each users membership of an application tenant. Once a user authenticates, using either a local B2C account or a federated social or work account, the token issued to the application contains, among other the user's application tenant id.

The REST functions and B2C user policies deployed as part of this setup are used by a sample ASP.NET MVC application simulating the SaaS application. For an running demo deployment go [here](https://b2cmultitenant.azurewebsites.net).

## Source code
The source code used for this deployment resides in several github repositories to facilitate its deployment to Azure Web App service:
- [Demo web app](https://github.com/mrochon/b2c-mt-webapp) (ASP.NET Core MVC app).
- [B2C IEF XML policies](https://github.com/mrochon/b2csamples/tree/master/Policies/MultiTenant) 
- [REST functions](https://github.com/mrochon/b2c-mt-rest) used by both the custom policies and the demo app

The PowerShell scripts provided in this folder perform support deployment/removal of the WebApp, REST functions and configuration data needed to support custom policy deployment.

## Deployment summary

| Step  | Purpose  | Tool  |
|---|---|---|
| 1  | Create a B2C tenant and [set it up for IEF custom policy](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory-b2c/custom-policy-get-started?tabs=applications) use.  |  [B2C IEF setup](https://b2ciefsetup.azurewebsites.net/) |
| 2  | Create all required B2C and Azure web artifacts.</br>Generate conf.json file used to upload custom IEF policies.  |  Setup-B2CMultiTenant.ps1 |
| 3  | Complete setup of items requiring manual intervention  | Manual  |
| 4 | Upload custom IEF policies |  [IEF upload tool](https://github.com/mrochon/b2cief-upload) |

You can use the Remove-B2CMultiTenant.ps1 in this folder to remove items created in step 2.


## Detailed instructions

### B2C setup
In order to deploy the [custom policies](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory-b2c/custom-policy-overview) used by this sample, your B2C directory requires some [additional setup](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory-b2c/custom-policy-get-started?tabs=applications). You can follow the above reference or use a [custom web app](https://b2ciefsetup.azurewebsites.net/) to execute these operations.

### Detailed instructions

#### Install required PowerShell modules
- Install-Module -Name MSAL.PS -RequiredVersion 2.5.0.1
- Install-Module -Name AzureAD-Preview
- Install-Module -Name Az

#### Create deployment data
- Copy the this folder to a temporary local folder.
- Create an app registration in your B2C tenant to enable the PowerShell script to execute Graph REST API on behalf of the signed-in user. Use the regular AAD blade (not the B2C blade):
    1. Name: B2CSetup (or whatever you choose)
    2. Public client
    3. Reply url: *urn:ietf:wg:oauth:2.0:oob*
    4. API permissions: all Microsoft Graph user delegated: *openid, offline_access, Directory.AccessAsUser.All*
- Update the setupSettings.json script.clientId property with the application id from the step above
- Update other properties in the setupSettings.json file:
    1. *b2cTenant*: your B2C tenant name 
    2. *policyPrefix*: a short string to be used in your policy name to disambiguate them from any other policies you may use
    3. *resourceGroup*: name of the Azure resource group to create for this deployment
    4. *location*: id of the Azure datacenter location to be used for deployment
    5. *appServicePlan*: Azure web service plan name. Both the demo app and the REST app will be deployed here
    6. *webApp.name*: name to be used for deploying the demo app. It will be used for app registration in the B2C tenant as well as to create the url of the Azure web app. Make sure it is unique enough for both purposes.
    7. *webApi.name*: same for the REST API app
    8. *X509KeyPassword*: password to be used to protect the X509 cert generated by the setup. It will be used later to upload the cert to B2C
    9. Leave other items unchanged

#### Execute Setup-B2CMultiTenant
- Run the Setup-B2CMultiTenant.ps1. You will be challenged to login 3 times (sorry) to authorize the script to use Microsoft Graph (directly), AzureAD PowerShell cmdlets and Az cmdlets. You will need to login with account(s) which allow the script to call Graph APIs needed to register apps and create policy keys and allow the other cmdlets to create Azure resources and deploy apps into them.
- The script should create RestClientCert.cer and .pfx and update the conf.json file. 
- When completed, the script will open a browser page asking you to sign in and grant consent to the REST app to call Microsoft Graph to create security groups (used to represent tenants). Sign in, grant consent. You can ignore the subsequent error page about lacking reply url (REST app has no UI).

#### Complete Setup
- Upload the RestClientCert.pfx to B2C's policy key store. It's name **must** be RESTClientCert (B2C will add a prefix to that).
- Use the App Registration (Preview) blade to find your new demo app (see webApp.name above). Modify its API permissions to include Microsoft Graph openid and offline_access permissions. Grant admin consent for its use. 

#### Upload custom policies

Use the [Upload-IEFPolicies tool](https://github.com/mrochon/b2cief-upload) to upload [the polices](https://github.com/mrochon/b2csamples/tree/master/Policies/MultiTenant). Use the conf.json file updated by the Setup-B2CMultiTenant script to provide the required values.

